If Manager Joe Girardi’s temperament is a weather vane for the Yankees’ fortunes, then his recent testiness — with a few dashes of sarcasm — may explain how the first two weeks of the season have unfolded.A 4-3 victory on Sunday over the Seattle Mariners provided plenty of reasons to exhale, beginning with the four-game losing streak it ended.There was Alex Rodriguez answering his demotion in the batting order and breaking a 0-for-19 slump by slugging a two-run home run. There was Masahiro Tanaka looking like the pitcher the Yankees handed $155 million and outfielder Brett Gardner resembling a catalytic pest. And the back end of the bullpen was not bad either: Dellin Betances and Andrew Miller combined to strike out all six batters they faced.But Girardi, who has become increasingly agitated in recent days over the persistent questions about Rodriguez, was not pleased when asked if he considered Rodriguez’s slump to be over or, with three other hitless at-bats, was he still a work in progress.“You know what?” Girardi said at his postgame news conference. “I went and saw a shrink and had him analyze what I should analyze and went from there. That’s what I did.”Several days earlier, Girardi protested that he was not God when he was asked why Rodriguez had slumped at the end of last season. Then earlier Sunday, Girardi explained why he had ducked a question Saturday about whether he would move Rodriguez, who batted sixth Sunday for the first time since last April, from his customary third spot in the batting order.“Well, I don’t make decisions on a whim,” said Girardi, who last year was occasionally miffed when questioned about Tanaka and the state of his fragile elbow. “There’s a lot of times I’ll sit at this table and have an idea of what I want to do, but I haven’t had a chance to communicate with the players, so it’s not going to be given to you first. Sorry.”If the victory did not seem to loosen Girardi, it did others. Rodriguez even tried to make a sly joke about not getting credit for driving in a runner in scoring position — the Yankees were 1 for 34 in the series. When there were only quizzical looks, Rodriguez shook his head and asked of news media members gathered around his locker, “Where are all the Ivy Leaguers?”On a more weighty matter, Rodriguez said he had no problem with the move down in the batting order. “Sometimes you’ve got to do that, you’ve got to shuffle the deck a little bit,” he said. “Whatever it takes to win, I’m willing to do.”The home run may quiet some of the concern about Rodriguez, but the rest of the day did little to suggest that he had solved his problems. He struck out twice and popped up in his other at-bats, though he did raise his batting average to .118.“I wish I was hitting .300 instead of 3 for 30,” Rodriguez said of his statistics entering Sunday. Of his home run, he added: “It feels good. It’s a work in progress. You have to chip away. It’s a long season. I thought my rhythm was better all day. I only got one hit, but I felt my swings over all were better.”There was little debate about Tanaka’s effort. It was his best in three starts this season. He allowed six hits, three runs and no walks and struck out six in seven innings. But the numbers did little to describe his misfortune. Three of the hits, bunched together in the first inning when the Mariners took a 1-0 lead, came in holes in the Yankees’ infield shift — including Robinson Cano’s dribbler toward third base.The other runs came with the aid of Kyle Seager’s hard grounder that went through first baseman Mark Teixeira’s legs and Nori Aoki’s liner that Jacoby Ellsbury misplayed into a triple. Aoki scored when Seth Smith’s grounder just eluded the drawn-in second baseman Starlin Castro. It tied the score at 3-3 and led to the last base runner the Mariners had.The Yankees regained the lead when Gardner singled — his third hit of the day — and raced to third on a single by Carlos Beltran, who had swapped spots in the lineup with Rodriguez. Gardner scored when Hisashi Iwakuma’s pitch skittered away from catcher Steve Clevenger.Rodriguez’s home run usurped a story line that was of keen interest in Japan: the matchup between the starting pitchers, Tanaka and Iwakuma, former teammates with the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles.It was hard not to notice the similarities between the two pitchers on Sunday. Both come set in the stretch with the ball held away from their chest and make use of the same leg kick. Both rely heavily on a split-fingered fastball and sharp control. Iwakuma makes more frequent use of a hesitation in his delivery.The two had an interesting dynamic. Although Iwakuma was the ace of that pitching staff, Tanaka was the more celebrated pitcher, owing in large part to his star turn during Japan’s high school tournament. (The event’s popularity in Japan is akin to that of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament in the United States.)While Tanaka said in an interview Friday that he was excited for the matchup, his first against a Japanese pitcher in the major leagues, he added that it would be improper in Japanese culture to give his opinion of Iwakuma, who at 35 is eight years older than Tanaka.“I think if it was Ichiro who was evaluating or commenting on Iwakuma, it would be totally fine,” Tanaka said, referring to Ichiro Suzuki, the 42-year-old Japanese star playing for the Miami Marlins. “But if it’s me commenting on someone who is older than I am, it’s a little bit awkward.”
SAN FRANCISCO — For the last few years, LinkedIn, the professional social networking company, has doled out increasingly large amounts of stock to pay its workers.In 2014, LinkedIn paid employees $319 million in stock, or 14 percent of revenue; in 2015, that rose to $510 million, or 17 percent of revenue. At the time, those figures were largely met with shrugs from Wall Street.Now that attitude may be changing.As LinkedIn prepares to report its latest quarterly earnings next week, Wall Street is increasingly scrutinizing the number of stock grants that the company pays employees — especially after LinkedIn projected lower growth for this year and its stock price has fallen.The Silicon Valley company’s stock-based compensation “provides additional reason to remain cautious” on LinkedIn, Mark May, an Internet analyst at Citigroup, wrote in a research note.The issue is not limited to LinkedIn. With tech earnings season kicking off on Monday, investors are paying more attention to stock-based compensation at many tech companies.Paying employees with stock is largely unquestioned when times are good, since the move theoretically aligns the interests of the workers with company performance. The practice is technically a corporate expense, but during boom periods, Wall Street typically focuses on a company’s operating results that exclude that expense.Yet public tech companies have had a rockier time in the stock market this year. That has led investors to begin looking more closely at the quality of the companies’ financial results. The scrutiny means examining earnings with stock-based compensation expenses included — and certain financial measures, like earnings and margins, invariably look worse when that expense is factored in.Tech companies stand out as some of the most generous givers of shares to employees. While the median number of restricted shares granted at Standard & Poor’s 1500 companies to executives and employees in 2014 equaled 450,198 shares, tech companies granted a median 798,000 shares of restricted stock to workers, according to data from Equilar, a research firm that provides data on executives, boards and compensation.As a result, there has been a “heightened investor focus on the level of stock-based compensation among the Internet companies,” Mark Mahaney, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a recent note.In an interview, Mr. Mahaney said stock-based compensation could “distort the quality” of a company’s earnings and “make them look stronger than they are.”Mr. Mahaney has identified Twitter, LinkedIn, Yahoo and Alibaba as among the tech companies that are highly dependent on stock to pay their employees. In a report, he wrote that Twitter’s stock-based compensation over the last two years accounted for 39 percent of the company’s revenue, on average, the highest percentage of any Internet company.LinkedIn, whose share price is down about 48 percent this year, did not respond to requests for comment. Twitter, whose stock is down more than 20 percent this year, also did not respond to a request for comment.Another tech company that Wall Street analysts are examining for its stock-based compensation expenses is Workday, which sells human resources and financial management software. The company is expected to increase its stock compensation about 48 percent in its 2017 fiscal year, which is faster than its revenue is projected to grow, according to Sarah Hindlian, an analyst at Macquarie Group.In an illustration of how stock-based compensation expenses can affect a company’s results, Ms. Hindlian says Workday’s margins are projected to be around negative 25 percent for fiscal year 2017. But when the company’s $370 million in stock-based compensation is excluded from results, its operating margins are much better, coming in around zero.Workday’s heavy reliance on stock-based compensation has been a factor in Ms. Hindlian’s projections for the company’s share price. Last month, she forecast that Workday’s stock would trade at $49, down from its current price of about $77. She has a sell recommendation on the stock.Ms. Hindlian says that while it can be reasonable for companies to pay workers a lot in stock, the practice can become scary when the stock starts to fall. “Particularly with software companies, you run the risk of losing your leading salespeople, engineers and developers when the stock falls, because employees feel like they’re getting a pay cut,” said Ms. Hindlian, who also rang the alarm on LinkedIn’s use of stock-based compensation over a year ago.“Somewhere along the way a management team may feel pressure to increase their share price to avoid loss of employees,” Ms. Hindlian said, “which can ultimately mean management goals and shareholder interests become misaligned.”Workday declined to comment.When companies authorize additional shares to pay employees and management, that also creates “dilution,” or a decrease in how much of the company a shareholder owns when new stock is issued. That effect is starting to push others on Wall Street to lower their price projections for tech company stocks. Mr. May of Citigroup lowered his price targets this month on Google, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, eBay, Yahoo and Twitter to “fully capture the likely ongoing dilution from future share grants as part of employee compensation,” he said.The increased scrutiny of tech companies that rely heavily on stock to pay employees is just one of many places where investors are taking a harder look as markets soften, said John Roe, a managing director at ISS Corporate Solutions, a group that advises shareholders on corporate governance issues.He noted that some shareholders had also submitted proposals asking companies to consider the impact of share buybacks on earnings, to figure out whether executives delivered better earnings by improving performance or by reducing the number of shares outstanding.“You see a brighter focus on certain practices when there is more volatility and markets are going down,” said Mr. Roe. “The reliance on equity compensation is one of those things that you might always worry about, but recent events have amplified that concern.”
CLEVELAND — The Mets arrived here with no series victories, a slumbering offense and a rookie starter, Steven Matz, with a 37.80 earned run average. They left with two wins in three games, a new No. 3 hitter and the dazzling version of Matz on display.Matz followed his worst major league start with his best on Sunday, spinning curves, sliders and changeups just the way Manager Terry Collins wanted. Matz struck out nine, a career high, over seven sparkling innings to beat the Cleveland Indians, 6-0, with help from two doubles by Michael Conforto.Collins inserted Conforto into the No. 3 spot in the lineup on Friday, hoping to jolt an offense that hit .194 in the season’s first eight games. It worked. Conforto went 5 for 12 in the series, with three doubles and a homer, and Collins said he would remain the No. 3 hitter against right-handed pitchers.“Anytime you’re in the heart of the lineup, where you can do some damage and drive in some runs, it’s exciting,” Conforto said. “I’ve never had any nervousness about it. It’s felt natural.”Conforto, a first-round pick in 2014, arrived in the majors last summer with the disciplined plate approach the Mets emphasize throughout the organization. He is hitting .313 with a .421 on-base percentage as the Mets head for Philadelphia and Atlanta, where they will face only right-handed starters.“I thought when we went on the road, we were going to start playing a little bit better, swinging the bats a little bit better, and we have,” Collins said. “We’ve just got to continue. We’re going in our division now, and that’s what made the difference for us last year — how we played in our division.”The Mets’ surge in the National League East late last season received a boost from Matz, who finished strong and earned a spot in the postseason rotation. But he started this season with a ghastly performance against Miami: seven runs in fewer than two innings, and a reluctance to use his off-speed pitches.After the first inning Sunday, the pitching coach Dan Warthen stressed the need for Matz to mix in those pitches with his fastballs. Matz — who was back on a regular routine after a long wait before his season debut — said he had felt fine in both starts but believed in himself more this time.“Just going after hitters and not trying to nitpick,” he said, explaining the difference. “Just trusting that I can miss with a pitch and they’ll still be able to get themselves out.”Matz pitched with a lead all game after the Mets blitzed Corey Kluber for three runs in the first inning, with Conforto and Lucas Duda driving in the runs.The Mets added three more in the second, though the sun was mostly responsible.With two outs and nobody on in the second, Indians center fielder Rajai Davis retreated for Curtis Granderson’s fly ball and held his glove high above his head. Davis’s sunglasses did not help, and neither did his glove. The ball fell to the warning track as Granderson hustled for a triple.Asdrubal Cabrera followed with a bunt single, perfectly placed on the grass between the mound and the third-base line, as Granderson scampered home. Another Conforto double, just inside the first-base line, made it 5-0, before Davis lost another ball in the sun that went for a run-scoring double by Yoenis Cespedes.The Mets, who had scored only 20 runs in their first eight games, scored 17 in three games here. Matz did not really need the outburst, stifling a Cleveland lineup that had rocked Matt Harvey in the middle innings Saturday.Just one runner made it to third off Matz, who retired 12 of his final 13 hitters — and managed to allow no catchable fly balls into the center-field glare.“We were able to keep their hitters off balance; that’s what we’re trying to do every day,” catcher Kevin Plawecki said.“When you’ve got a guy like him that had all four pitches working and was able to spot up like he did today, it makes for a really fun day,” Plawecki said of Matz.INSIDE PITCHThe infant son of starter Jacob deGrom is improving, deGrom told Terry Collins. “They’re hoping that they can take the baby home tomorrow, which would be a huge step forward,” Collins said. DeGrom, who is on family medical emergency leave, threw a bullpen session on Sunday and will throw a simulated game Tuesday as he builds up his pitch count after having strained a back muscle in his first start. ... Catcher Travis d’Arnaud, who bruised his left elbow when he was hit by a pitch on Saturday, could miss the opener of the Mets’ series in Philadelphia on Monday. “I might give him one more day, just to make sure,” Collins said. “He said he feels a lot better, but he was pretty sore last night.” ... The Mets will face the Phillies’ Vince Velasquez on Tuesday. Velasquez, who fired six shutout innings with nine strikeouts at Citi Field on April 9, followed up by striking out 16 San Diego Padres in a three-hit shutout last week.
BRASÍLIA — Brazilian legislators voted on Sunday night to approve impeachment of Dilma Rousseff, the nation’s first female president, whose tenure has been buffeted by a dizzying corruption scandal, a shrinking economy and spreading disillusionment.After three days of impassioned debate, the lower house of Congress, the Chamber of Deputies, voted to send the case against Ms. Rousseff to the Senate. Its 81 members will vote by a simple majority on whether to hold a trial on charges that the president illegally used money from state-owned banks to conceal a yawning budget deficit in an effort to bolster her re-election prospects. That vote is expected to take place next month.Those pressing for impeachment had to win the support of two-thirds of the 513 deputies in the lower house; the decisive 342nd vote for impeachment happened at about 10:10 p.m. Eastern time. The final vote was 367 for impeachment, 137 against and 7 abstaining. Two deputies did not vote.If the Senate accepts the case, Ms. Rousseff will step down temporarily while it deliberates her fate. Vice President Michel Temer, a constitutional law scholar and seasoned politician, will assume the presidency.Given the larger-than-expected margin of deputies voting for impeachment, some political analysts said the Senate was likely to remove Ms. Rousseff from office, a ruling that would require a two-thirds majority.“Politicians know how to read society pretty well, and they can sense that the people want her out,” said Paulo Sotero, the director of the Brazil Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington.Ms. Rousseff can still appeal to the Supreme Federal Tribunal, Brazil’s highest court, though it has rejected previous motions to have the impeachment measure dismissed.The chamber’s decision to impeach Ms. Rousseff less than halfway through her second term provoked shouts of joy among the thousands of protesters who had gathered in the capital and in cities across the country, but also cries of treachery from her supporters.Weeping as she stood amid the throngs rallying in support of the president, Gabriela Correia, 22, a customer service representative, said she was disgusted that so many deputies, some of them notoriously corrupt, had voted against Ms. Rousseff. “I want to make clear that I’m not here to defend a politician, but to protect our democratic political system,” she said. “My heart is aching.”Some political analysts said they worried that the move to impeach Ms. Rousseff would cause lasting damage to Brazil’s young democracy, re-established in 1985 after two decades of military dictatorship.“This is a coup, a traumatic injury to Brazil’s presidential system,” said Pedro Arruda, a political analyst at the Pontifical Catholic University in São Paulo. “This is just pretext to take down a president who was elected by 54 million people. She doesn’t have foreign bank accounts, and she hasn’t been accused of corruption, unlike those who are trying to impeach her.”Although legal experts and political analysts are divided, many have expressed concern over the basis of the impeachment drive. They note that the budgetary sleight of hand that Ms. Rousseff is accused of employing to address the deficit has been used by many elected officials, though not on so large a scale.“It’s putting a very large bullet in Brazilian democracy,” said Lincoln Secco, a professor of history at the University of São Paulo. “This will set a very dangerous precedent for democracy in Brazil, because from now on, any moment that we have a highly unpopular president, there will be pressure to start an impeachment process.”The vote to impeach is a crushing defeat for Ms. Rousseff and her Workers’ Party, a former band of leftist agitators who battled the nation’s military rulers in the 1980s and who swept to power in 2002 with the election of one of the group’s founders, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, to the presidency.Mr. da Silva, a skillful politician who endeared himself to both rich and poor, presided over heady economic growth and a generous expansion of social welfare benefits that helped lift millions of Brazilians out of abject poverty.He also moved to strengthen the government’s control of key industries like petroleum. That set the stage for abuses at Petrobras, the state-owned oil company, that would later ensnare scores of the nation’s political and business elite in a scheme that funneled kickbacks into campaign coffers.Barred by the constitution from running for a third term, he anointed Ms. Rouseff as his successor, and she easily won election in 2010.A former Marxist guerrilla, Ms. Rousseff had never before held elected office, and critics say her lack of political skills hampered her ability to work with opposition members in Congress as well as key figures in her governing coalition.In 2014, she was re-elected by a thin margin after an especially divisive campaign.As the economy went into a tailspin and a huge corruption scandal took down once-untouchable political figures, Ms. Rousseff was abandoned by many of her allies, giving momentum to an impeachment initiative conceived by her rivals.“When things started going wrong, she was unable to get the situation under control, and her lack of flexibility and stubbornness made things worse,” said Mathieu Turgeon, a political scientist at the University of Brasília. “All of this has now caught up with her.”The impeachment drive has been polarizing, spurring raucous street protests, sundering friendships and provoking widespread anxiety over the potential impact to Brazil’s democracy.Ms. Rousseff and her supporters have likened the impeachment drive to a slow-rolling coup by her political rivals, among them Mr. Temer, her vice president, who last month joined those calling for her impeachment.The recent fortunes of Brazil, once an economic powerhouse of the developing world, have gone from bad to worse, with the economy expected to contract at least 3.5 percent for a second year in a row. Millions of Brazilians have lost their jobs since the days of double-digit growth, fueled in part by China’s hunger for commodities.In recent months, her once-favorable approval ratings have dipped below 8 percent.“This is a government that has lost legitimacy, credibility and the ability to govern,” said Monica de Bolle, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a research group in Washington. “It’s a terrible situation.”Although Ms. Rousseff is not accused of corruption, the Petrobras scandal has implicated important members of her party, including Mr. da Silva. He is being investigated over allegations that he and his foundation received the equivalent of $7.8 million in services and lecture fees from construction companies seeking government contracts.The unfolding scandal, known as Operação Lava Jato, or Operation Car Wash, has riveted Brazilians, as prosecutors have released details of how Petrobras funneled millions of dollars into the political campaigns of Workers’ Party politicians and their allies.“The impeachment is on relatively weak constitutional grounds, but at the end of the day, this is a vote on the massive corruption probe, deep recession and a series of other issues that have plagued this administration,” said Christopher Garman, a Brazil analyst at the Eurasia Group, a political risk consulting firm.Ms. Rousseff is the second Brazilian leader to be impeached since 1992, when Fernando Collor de Mello, facing huge protests over an influence-peddling scandal, resigned moments before the Senate was to vote on his ouster.Ms. Rousseff’s predicament is somewhat different. Unlike Mr. Collor de Mello, she has not been accused of self-enrichment, and despite her sagging popularity, only 61 percent of Brazilians support impeachment, down from 68 percent last month, according to a survey by the polling firm Datafolha.Then there is the question of who and what comes next. Vice President Temer, a senior member of the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party, will have to grapple with political and economic challenges.He also faces possible impeachment over the same allegations lodged against Ms. Rousseff, as well as accusations that he was involved in an illegal ethanol-buying scheme.Next in line for the presidency after Mr. Temer is Eduardo Cunha, the powerful leader of the lower house, who has been a driving force behind Ms. Rousseff’s impeachment. An evangelical Christian who is fond of using his Twitter account to spread biblical verse, Mr. Cunha is accused of using a Swiss bank account to conceal $40 million in bribes.“People are fed up with the mismanagement and economic mistakes of Dilma, and the corruption and arrogance of the Workers’ Party, but no one feels any optimism for what might come next,” said Raul Juste Lores, the editor at large for Folha de S.Paulo, a leading Brazilian newspaper.As tens of thousands of people gathered outside the National Congress on Sunday to express their support for or against impeachment, some celebrated by setting off fireworks, while others said there were no winners in the day’s vote.Among them was Stephany Machado, 22, a Portuguese teacher who had made the 16-hour trip by bus from São Paulo. Although she said she was not a supporter of the Workers’ Party, she worries about the long-term damage that impeachment could inflict on democracy in Brazil.“Dilma is president through the power of our votes, and what they are trying to do is remove her from power in an anticonstitutional way,” she said. “We can’t give this up without a fight.”
On perhaps the defining issue of the 2016 Republican primary, Senator Ted Cruz falls well to the right of Ronald Reagan, who supported granting legal status to millions of undocumented immigrants.He opposes abortion even in cases of rape and incest, and has called for a federal amendment that would allow states to avoid performing or recognizing same-sex marriages.He wants to return to the gold standard, abolish the Internal Revenue Service and create a tax structure simple enough for Americans to file on postcards.He has criticized Donald J. Trump on deportation policy. From the right.Throughout his Senate career, Republican opponents have cast Mr. Cruz as a master of the ill-considered — a “wacko bird,” as Senator John McCain of Arizona once called him — whose seemingly reckless pursuits were thought to place him well outside the mainstream.Yet a close reading of Mr. Cruz’s policy prescriptions, influences and writings over two decades, combined with interviews with conservative intellectual leaders and Cruz allies, suggest two powerful truths about the man who might yet assume the mantle of modern conservatism.He would be the most conservative presidential nominee in at least a half-century, perhaps to the right of Barry Goldwater, testing the electoral limits of a personal ideology he has forged meticulously since adolescence.And he has, more effectively than almost any politician of his generation, anticipated the rightward tilt of the Republican Party of today, grasping its conservatism even as colleagues dismissed him as a fringe figure.Now, even Mr. Cruz’s staunchest Republican enemies tend to criticize him most forcefully on tactics — lamenting his leading role in the 2013 government shutdown, for instance — but not on substance, where they have generally arrived at equivalent positions.“Nobody has been more assiduous than Cruz at staying on the same page as the conservative base of the Republican Party,” said Ramesh Ponnuru, a conservative author and senior editor of National Review, who first met Mr. Cruz when they were students at Princeton University. “That said, it was also the man meeting the moment. He was always a constitutionalist conservative, and then constitutionalism became cool among conservatives.”There have at times been perceptible shifts from Mr. Cruz during the campaign, in both tone and substance, coaxed by the resonance of Mr. Trump’s populist anger and hard-line positions on trade and immigration.But at its core, Mr. Cruz’s brand of conservatism is the product of decades of careful study and manifest intellectual firepower, fusing a host of historical strands into what he has called “opportunity conservatism.”As a teenager, growing up in Houston, he earned money delivering speeches on Friedrich A. Hayek and Ludwig von Mises, expounding on free-market principles at Rotary and Kiwanis clubs.The epigraph for his senior thesis at Princeton, which focused on states’ rights and the Ninth and 10th Amendments, quoted James Madison: “You must first enable the government to control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control itself.”When he captured the Republican nomination in his 2012 Senate race, Mr. Cruz said he was “walking in Uncle Milton’s footsteps,” to honor the 100th birthday of the economist Milton Friedman.He is fond of invoking Mr. Reagan’s Cold War dictum (“We win, they lose”), Margaret Thatcher’s dismissal of socialism (“The problem with socialism is, eventually you run out of other people’s money”), and even, at times, President John F. Kennedy.“I intend to have in the office of president what J.F.K. used to refer to as ‘vigaaaahhh’ in defending the Constitution,” Mr. Cruz, now 45, told voters in Iowa in January.Some citations are more familiar to conservative audiences than others.On economic policy, he has at moments turned to Ayn Rand, the libertarian heroine lionized by the right, and John Rawls, the liberal political philosopher who argued for a compact protecting the “least advantaged.”References to Mr. Rawls have dwindled since Mr. Cruz began his presidential candidacy last year. “I don’t think Rawls focus-groups in Iowa,” Mr. Ponnuru joked.It is clear that Mr. Cruz, whose campaign did not make him available for an interview, is most animated by constitutional fights over what he views as overreach by the federal government, particularly on matters of religion. He speaks often of his triumphs as solicitor general of Texas, which included the successful defense of the state’s right to display a Ten Commandments monument at the Capitol.He is a creature of the Supreme Court, counting Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist as a former boss and Justice Antonin Scalia as a friend whose strict constructionist views helped shape his own.And arguing last year against a federal ban on marijuana — despite his personal opposition to marijuana legalization at the state level — Mr. Cruz recited Justice Louis D. Brandeis’s belief in the states’ role as “laboratories of democracy.”Indeed, conservative thinkers have sensed in Mr. Cruz an array of less likely forebears: the faith-focused morality of Jimmy Carter or George W. Bush; President Obama’s disdain for Beltway think-tank consensus; the fictional exploits of Frank Capra and Jimmy Stewart.“There’s a little bit of ‘Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,’” said Peter D. Feaver, a national security strategist under Mr. Bush and a political-science professor at Duke University. “The, ‘I’m going to pursue this even if everyone else is mad at me because this is right.’”Mr. Cruz seems to take uncommon pride in communicating uncomfortable policy positions to potentially hostile audiences. Mr. Ponnuru likened Mr. Cruz’s opposition to ethanol subsidies in Iowa — once considered heretical in a presidential primary — to Mr. Goldwater’s unpopular suggestion in 1964, while campaigning in Tennessee, that the Tennessee Valley Authority should be sold.On matters of foreign policy, Mr. Cruz is viewed much more warily by mainstream Republicans. His pre-Senate career dealt little with international affairs, many say, and his first term has contained some notable shifts.Mr. Cruz entered the Senate in 2013 as part of the Tea Party wave, brandishing a libertarian streak that became more pronounced after revelations of government surveillance tactics, courtesy of Edward J. Snowden.But in the years since, as the national dialogue has grown more consumed by security threats like the Islamic State, Mr. Cruz has recalibrated considerably, leaving an impression among some conservative thinkers that he is merely groping for the median position of the base.Most notable during the campaign has been his pledge to “carpet-bomb ISIS into oblivion,” which has earned a rebuke from military leaders who define the term specifically as the blanket bombing of even civilian areas. Mr. Cruz has argued his iteration can be more targeted.“He means an overwhelming air campaign,” his longtime national security adviser, Victoria Coates, clarified in an interview.Peter Wehner, a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center who served under Mr. Reagan and Presidents George Bush and George W. Bush, said Mr. Cruz had been “a little hard to find on the spectrum” of conservative foreign policy.“The latest incarnation for him is a sort of realist school of overwhelming military force, but he’s constantly criticizing nation-building,” Mr. Wehner said. “I have a feeling he’s more of an amateur in that area.”The introduction of a national security team last month failed to inspire universal confidence: While the list included some well-respected members of the Reagan and Bush administrations, it also had Frank Gaffney Jr., viewed by many as a fringe conspiracy theorist who has suggested that President Obama is Muslim.“Being critical of Frank is a cottage industry,” said Ms. Coates, whose own résumé — she is better known as an art historian — has been questioned. “The fact of the matter is, he has been one of the few fearless voices speaking out against the problems of radical Islam.”Other concerns are more semantic. Mr. Cruz has been criticized for appearing to use “neo-con” as a pejorative, and for characterizing his foreign policy views as falling “somewhere in between” two polar extremes: the libertarianism of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and the hawkishness of Mr. McCain or Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.He speaks often of Reagan-style “peace through strength,” reminding crowds that the largest country Mr. Reagan invaded was Grenada.But some conservative foreign policy experts see a crucial difference, implicit in a February speech outlining his military plans in South Carolina.“Cruz’s defense speech was couched as being Reaganite, with plans to increase military spending substantially,” said Gary J. Schmitt, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. “But the caveat was getting the economy fixed first. Reagan increased defense spending even while deficits soared.”Mr. Wehner worried generally that Mr. Cruz had displayed an “intellectual rigidity” that afforded him little latitude to adapt.Mr. Cruz has long trumpeted his “consistent conservative” credentials as a strength, proudly recalling his teenage days as part of a team of students who toured event spaces in Texas and wrote out the Constitution on easels.Robert P. George, his mentor and thesis adviser at Princeton, said that he was most struck by “the consistency from the time when he was a student to now.” Many conservatives cite Madison and Tocqueville, he said, but “Ted has actually read them.”Mr. George’s most memorable lesson was in humility. In his book, Mr. Cruz writes of receiving a graded paper from Mr. George, seeing a “C+” on a folded corner of the first page and panicking. “With white knuckles, I folded the corner over,” he wrote, “and on the front was written, ‘Just kidding! A.’”Mr. George’s goal was simple. “I thought he should at least have a few moments’ experience,” he said, “of not being the smartest guy in the class.”
Top contenders for the 142nd running of the Kentucky Derby are listed in order of preference, with comments provided by Joe Drape and Melissa Hoppert of The New York Times. Churchill Downs has adopted a points system to determine the Derby field, with points being earned by the top four finishers in designated prep races. The odds are from the Churchill Downs futures pool, and the records are starts-win-place-show.1. NyquistTrainer: Doug O’Neill Jockey: Mario GutierrezRecord: 7-7-0-0 Points: 130 Odds: 3-1J.D.: The 2-year-old champion is the one to beat. He is also undefeated. Is he bred for a mile and a quarter? No, but few are.M.H.: Saturday’s Arkansas Derby just reinforced this fact: There’s Nyquist, the Florida Derby winner, and then there’s everyone else.Next up: Kentucky Derby on May 7.2. LaniTrainer: Mikio Matsunaga Jockey: Yutaka TakeRecord: 6-3-1-0 Points: 100 Odds: 25-1J.D.: This Kentucky-bred, Japan-based colt stood out in the U.A.E. Derby. None of the American horses look anywhere close to Nyquist. Why not take a flier with this grandson of Sunday Silence?M.H.: This Tapit colt has three wins in his last four races and is already at Churchill Downs training. But I think Exaggerator is more talented.Next up: Kentucky Derby.3. ExaggeratorTrainer: Keith Desormeaux Jockey: Kent DesormeauxRecord: 9-4-2-1 Points: 126 Odds: 27-1J.D.: He rose seemingly from the dead, running away with the Santa Anita Derby on April 9 after a disappointing third-place finish in his previous race. This colt has some back class.M.H.: This Curlin colt turned in a dominating performance at Santa Anita and has more races under his belt than any other horse on our list. That experience could help come Derby day.Next up: Kentucky Derby.4. MohaymenTrainer: Kiaran McLaughlin Jockey: Junior AlvaradoRecord: 6-5-0-0 Points: 80 Odds: 8-1J.D.: This colt went from Wonder Horse to What the Heck Happened with an awful performance in the Florida Derby early this month. Do you draw a line through it? Nope.M.H.: He had a tough trip on a wet track in the Florida Derby, going wide throughout. Can he regain his form in the Derby and show that that was just an off day, or will he continue to regress? I’m leaning toward the former.Next up: Kentucky Derby.5. Mor SpiritTrainer: Bob Baffert Jockey: Gary StevensRecord: 7-3-4-0 Points: 84 Odds: 11-1J.D.: This Pennsylvania-bred colt is as steady as they come, but he looked ordinary clunking up for second in the Santa Anita Derby.M.H.: This speedy colt has been high on Baffert’s list since Day 1, and with a clunker of a performance in Arkansas by his stablemate Cupid, we can see why. My money is on Mor Spirit to finish second on the first Saturday in May.Next up: Kentucky Derby.6. DestinTrainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: Javier CastellanoRecord: 5-3-1-0 Points: 51 Odds: 16-1J.D.: He won the Sam F. Davis Stakes and the Tampa Bay Derby, but against whom exactly?M.H.: He set a track record for a mile and a sixteenth while outdueling his stablemate Outwork in the Tampa Bay Derby last month. Did he do too much too soon?Next up: Kentucky Derby.7. Gun RunnerTrainer: Steve Asmussen Jockey: Florent GerouxRecord: 5-4-0-0 Points: 151 Odds: 13-1J.D.: Meet your West Virginia Derby winner.M.H.: He swept the two big Derby prep races at the Fair Grounds in New Orleans, but he hardly seems fast enough to win the Derby. His stablemate Creator rallied to win the Arkansas Derby and is getting hot at the right time.Next up: Kentucky Derby.8. OutworkTrainer: Todd Pletcher Jockey: John VelazquezRecord: 4-3-1-0 Points: 120 Odds: 30-1J.D.: He won the Wood Memorial last weekend — albeit by a head in the slowest winning time in the history of the race. He is lightly raced, though, and getting better.M.H.: He could eventually be formidable but not in time to don roses at the Derby.Next up: Kentucky Derby.9. Mo TomTrainer: Tom Amoss Jockey: Corey LanerieRecord: 7-3-0-3 Points: 32 Odds: 17-1J.D.: This talented colt has been buried by terrible rides in his last two races, so look for a rider switch now that Mike Smith and a couple of others appear available. He is a live long shot.M.H.: The Saints owners Tom and Gayle Benson have two Derby contenders in Mo Tom and Tom’s Ready. Both are already at Churchill Downs, which is a bonus.Next up: Kentucky Derby.10. Brody’s CauseTrainer: Dale Romans Jockey: Luis SaezRecord: 6-3-0-1 Points: 114 Odds: n/aJ.D.: This grinder needs a perfect trip and a grueling pace ahead of him. That’s asking a lot.M.H.: This Blue Grass Stakes winner rebounded from a seventh-place finish in the Tampa Bay Derby. But he will still have to improve on his performance at Keeneland to have a shot at Churchill Downs.Next up: Kentucky Derby.

DOHA, Qatar — Officials from 18 oil-producing nations failed on Sunday to reach a deal to freeze oil production at current levels.The meeting of officials, representing most of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries as well as Russia, had been intended to calm the markets and convince them that the two leading oil exporters, Russia and Saudi Arabia, were cooperating. But with officials coming up short on Sunday, the meeting may end up being a blow to confidence that could send oil prices tumbling.A sharp fall in oil prices could also feed into equity prices, which have recently tended to rise and fall along with oil prices.Oil fell sharply in early trading on Monday in Asia, at one point dropping nearly 6 percent to fall below $38 a barrel. Asian stock markets were mixed. Japanese shares were down nearly 3 percent in morning trading, but stocks across the rest of Asia saw more modest declines. Markets in Shanghai and Hong Kong opened around 1 percent lower.“There will be a lot of people who they have disappointed,” said Bill Farren-Price, chief executive of Petroleum Policy Intelligence, a British firm that advises hedge funds and other businesses on the oil markets. The oil exporters, he said, “raised expectations.”A major stumbling block in the talks appears to have been pressure from Saudi Arabia for Iran to participate in the freeze, a measure to address the current global oversupply of oil. The Iranians, who are rapidly increasing production after the end of most sanctions over their nuclear program, have refused to cap production at current low levels.The oil producers seemed to head into the meeting full of confidence that a deal to stabilize oil markets could be reached. In fact, a draft agreement calling for a freeze at January levels through October was circulated Saturday.Talk of a potential freeze had already helped lift the oil markets from their January lows below $30 per barrel to about $43 per barrel for Brent crude. “I think at least the discussion and expectations around the Doha meeting have contributed to higher prices,” Eric Lascelles, chief economist at RBC Global Asset Management, said in an interview before the meeting.A deal was unlikely to quickly change the amount of oil on the market because most participants in the freeze were pumping at high levels. And the failure is unlikely to have much of an impact on supply and demand balances.What might limit the reaction is a strike on Sunday by Kuwaiti oil workers. That has cut into the country’s oil production by what appears to be a substantial amount. “You would expect the market to sell off but the downside might be limited, “ said Mr. Farren-Price, who was observing the Doha meeting.Analysts on Sunday also raised the question of how Saudi Arabia and the other countries could have scheduled the meeting if they knew it was doomed to failure. After all, the idea was to calm the markets, not roil them.“This implies really poor communication by the lead members of the group,” particularly Saudi Arabia and Russia, said Richard Mallinson, an oil analyst at Energy Aspects, a London-based market research firm. “Why even schedule this meeting if you did not have a compromise agreed over Iran.”The idea of a freeze in production emerged in February, after oil prices plunged below $30 per barrel. OPEC members had been unable to agree on production cuts to manage the market. Instead, most members pumped oil at full capacity, trying to maximize revenues in the face of falling prices.Saudi Arabia, Russia, Qatar and Venezuela agreed in principle on a freeze at a meeting in February, but made it contingent on participation by other major producers. The idea of a freeze gained favor because it would involve little or no sacrifice for anyone.Analysts and some OPEC officials thought that a way could be found to accommodate Iran’s desire to make up ground lost under sanctions.Either they misread the Saudis or the kingdom’s leadership hardened its position. Saudi Arabia and Iran are bitter rivals in the Middle East, clashing over Yemen and Syria. The competition increasingly extends to oil, where a resurgent Iran is vying with the Saudis for market share among customers in Asia and Europe.In the days before this meeting, a mixed message emerged from Saudi Arabia. Its oil officials, led by Ali al-Naimi, an 80-year-old veteran oil minister, evidently sought accommodation with other big producers, including Iran, while, the deputy crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, who has become the kingdom’s chief policy maker, indicated that Saudi Arabia might not go along with a freeze if Iran did not also comply.“If all major producers don’t freeze production, we will not freeze production,” Prince Mohammed told Bloomberg News recently.The deal was scuppered by Saudi Arabia’s insistence that language requiring that all OPEC members participate in the freeze be inserted in the draft. There was little question that Iran, which was not represented at the meeting, would agree. After lengthy negotiations among Saudi Arabia, Russia, Venezuela and Qatar, which convened the meeting, the talks broke up on Sunday.“The meeting concluded that we all need time for further consultation,” Qatar’s energy minister, Mohammed al-Sada, said at a news conference. He said that “participating countries would consult among themselves and with others” until the next OPEC meeting, which is scheduled for June in Vienna.Saudi tactics on the freeze appear to be a part of a shift in the kingdom’s oil policy, analysts say.The Saudis, analysts say, increasingly seem to accept that they can no longer control oil prices through OPEC, in part because the huge increases in supply from the United States in recent years have undercut OPEC’s leverage.“This is the new world of oil,” said Jim Burkhard, head of oil markets and scenarios research at IHS, who was also observing the meeting. “The oil market is a reflection of the world. Power is more decentralized.”The Saudis are shifting instead toward producing whatever oil they need to supply their growing network of domestic refineries and petrochemical plants and their expanding body of overseas customers.Prince Mohammed, who has authority over the Saudi oil industry, warned that the kingdom could increase production by a million barrels per day in the coming months if it chose.With low production costs, estimated at $3.50 to $5 per barrel, Saudi Arabia can compete on price with any producer. So can Russia, which can produce oil for about $4 per barrel, according to IHS. While Saudi Arabia and its Persian Gulf allies, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, are feeling the pinch of lower revenues, they are in far less immediate trouble than OPEC members like Venezuela and Algeria, analysts say.Some of the less well-off oil producers clearly wanted a deal in hopes that it would raise prices and revenues. “This is something that affects the whole oil industry whether you are in OPEC or not,” Ecuador’s oil minister, Carlos Pareja Yannuzzelli, told reporters on Sunday.While plans are far from fully delineated, Prince Mohammed appears to be charting a more independent course for the Saudi oil industry. For instance, he has said he plans a public listing of the national oil company, Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil-producing company. A public listing might require the company to pay more attention to the requirements of outside investors than to other OPEC members.Prince Mohammed increasingly seems to see oil as a potential political instrument — an approach that Mr. Naimi eschewed.“There is a lot of change happening in Riyadh,” Mr. Mallinson said. Oil policy is becoming “less insulated from politics.”Some analysts speculate that Mr. Naimi — who has long been skeptical that other producers, including Russia, would honor production ceilings — is going along with the idea of a freeze to help insulate Saudi Arabia from criticism.The Saudis might have been “covering their backs,” said Paul Stevens, an analyst at Chatham House, a London-based research firm. “They can say, ‘We tried.’”Russia had reason to go along with a freeze. Russia’s economy, which depends heavily on oil revenues, is in recession. The Kremlin’s desperation for higher prices is palpable; the country is committed to two wars, in Ukraine and Syria. At home, wages are being cut, bringing signs of social unrest ahead of a parliamentary election in September.Russia’s energy minister, Alexander Novak, who attended the Doha meeting, has been a crucial supporter of a freeze. A role assigned to Mr. Novak was to bring in Iran, but he has failed so far.Russia and Saudi Arabia trade places for the top spot among oil producers. Russia has been in the lead of late, pumping 10.9 million barrels of oil a day in January compared with Saudi Arabia’s 10.2 million. But because of Russia’s larger population and industrial base, it consumes more oil at home, leaving Saudi Arabia the leader in exports.Since the Soviet period, OPEC has looked on Russia as a freeloader on price-boosting production cuts: Russia benefited but never joined in.Analysts say that OPEC’s efforts to involve Russia and other outsiders underlines its diminished clout. Joining with Russia is “what is left for an organization that has lost its core reason for being, at least for now and possibly for the longer term,” said Bhushan Bahree, an OPEC analyst at the market research firm IHS, who was observing the meeting.
John Kander’s newest musical, “Kid Victory,” will make its New York debut in September as part of the Vineyard Theater’s 2016-7 season.Mr. Kander, 89, who composed the music for “Cabaret” and “Chicago,” wrote “Kid Victory” with Gregory Pierce after their previous 2013 collaboration, “The Landing,” which also ran at the Vineyard Theater. “Kid Victory” will be directed by Liesl Tommy and follows a teenager returning to his Kansas hometown.Nicky Silver’s “This Day Forward” will receive its world premiere at the Vineyard sometime next winter. Mark Brokaw will direct; the pair previously collaborated on “The Lyons,” which ran at the Vineyard before transferring to Broadway in 2012.The season will be rounded out next spring by Gina Gionfriddo’s “Can You Forgive Her?,” which will be directed by Peter Dubois. The play is set on Halloween night.More information can be found at www.vineyardtheatre.org.
MASHIKI, Japan — People here said they had known that a network of fault lines ran under their town like veins. But no major earthquake had struck in anyone’s lifetime. Even in Japan, the most seismically unstable country in the world, that fact had apparently created a false sense of security.That was before two earthquakes struck within just over a day last week.On Sunday, some braved the seemingly endless aftershocks to sift through their shattered homes, looking for valuables — a bankbook, medication needed by an elderly relative. Others sheltered in their cars, as even the sturdiest buildings suddenly felt fragile.“There were stories from hundreds of years ago, but nobody thought it would happen right under them,” said Tadashi Uchida, 77, the head of a neighborhood association in a section of Mashiki with about 500 households.Dozens of the area’s mostly wooden homes, including Mr. Uchida’s, crumbled in the twin quakes, which struck late Thursday and early Saturday. With magnitudes of 6.2 and 7, according to the United States Geological Survey, they left at least 42 people dead.Water, electricity and gas remained cut off in most of Mashiki and surrounding towns and villages on the island of Kyushu, in Japan’s far southwest. More than 100,000 people were in temporary shelters, the authorities said.Mr. Uchida has been sleeping in his small hatchback, together with his wife and an ailing 82-year-old neighbor. The car sat on Sunday alongside about 20 others in a local park, where the ground was split by a long gash several feet wide and several deep.At a cluster of picnic tables at one end of the park, several women in their 70s and 80s cooked rice on camp stoves, laughing to buoy their spirits. They were interrupted by a dark-robed priest from a nearby Buddhist temple, who had stopped by to deliver water and news about the conditions in shelters. The women and Mr. Uchida said they preferred to stay in the park, because it was more private and closer to their homes.One of the women, Taeko Uchiyama, 80, said evacuating her home had reminded her of fleeing American bombing raids on the nearby city of Kumamoto toward the end of World War II.“I was 9 years old then, and now I’m having another experience at 80,” she said.Before the quake, Mashiki had escaped the worst of the demographic and economic decline that grips much of rural Japan. The town’s population of 33,000 was even growing. Residents said after the quakes that they expected Mashiki to recover, but worried that could take years.Yoshitaka Ozeki, 35, who works in road construction, said he had moved from Kumamoto with his wife, Kiyomi, 31, to raise a family. They have seven children — already unusual in a country with a low birthrate — and Kiyomi is eight months pregnant. Their two-story apartment building was damaged but remained standing, and they, too, have been sleeping in two family cars.Mr. Ozeki said he made quick runs into the apartment between aftershocks — there have been more than 400, many strong enough to cause new damage — to find warm clothes and blankets.“I tell the kids it’s O.K., but then it shakes again, and they start crying again,” he said.He added that he expected there would be plenty of work on the way for him, repairing cracked roads, but expressed worry that he would not be able to find another place to live.A 10-minute walk away, more than 1,000 people, young and old, were crammed into a sports complex that had been turned into an evacuation center. The survivors rested on blankets and pieces of cardboard, filling every room and hallway. Many had brought their dogs.Generator trucks made the gym complex one of few places in Mashiki with electricity. The most-coveted spots were in a large room covered in soft mats normally used for judo.“For the first two or three days we’re just focused on how to get them inside and feed them,” said Kazuki Yamane, a director of the Y.M.C.A., which manages the facility, who had come from Tokyo to help organize the effort.He said that many evacuees were likely to return home once the aftershocks subsided and water and power were restored, but that some would probably need shelter for weeks or months.In one small but intensively damaged neighborhood, Imayoshi, virtually all of the 20 or 30 wooden homes were destroyed — cracked and leaning over at contorted angles; caved in at the centers; or knocked over almost intact, like dominoes.The area was deserted except for Hideaki and Tetsuko Yoshino, both 73, who said their home had survived because it was relatively new. They had it rebuilt to stronger standards 15 years ago after a typhoon damaged it.“The first quake shifted the piano by a meter or so,” Mrs. Yoshino said. “The second one flipped it right over.”The Yoshinos said they farmed rice and melons — the latter a Mashiki specialty — and were trying to salvage a few bright yellow melons from their crop to distribute in town. Mr. Yoshino said their neighbors were attached to the land and would probably want to rebuild. But many are in their 70s and 80s, and few, if any, had earthquake insurance, which is costly and covers only a small portion of losses in any case.“Realistically, I don’t know what they’re going to do,” Mr. Yoshino said.
MONROEVILLE, Ala. — The play unfolded here Friday at the Old Monroe County Courthouse pretty much as it has for the past 27 years. Atticus Finch defended Tom Robinson. The gospel choir sang. Scout used a slingshot to keep the boys in line and her curiosity to pose tough questions.But much about this stage production of “To Kill a Mockingbird” and life in this small town, where it has long been an economic and civic anchor, is a bit different this year.Harper Lee, the author who first gave life to the story and became this town’s most famous resident, died in February. The play, which is an adaptation of her novel, is being produced this spring for the first time by a nonprofit she created, not the local museum that had relied on it for revenue.A few actors from the all-volunteer cast have quit, in part, they say, because the Monroe County Heritage Museum is no longer the chief beneficiary of the production.“I don’t have drama in my personal life,” said one actor, Alan Smith, who took part in the production for three years, “and I don’t want it in my relationship with the community.”Ms. Lee never attended the play, and her decision to take back control of the production is viewed by many here as residue from a trademark fight she had with the museum several years ago. She sued the museum in 2013 because, among other things, she thought some items it sold, such as “Mockingbird” mugs, traded on the reputation of her novel. The museum fought back, but in a settlement agreed to pay royalties and to regular audits of its gift shop. It later sent a letter of apology.Ms. Lee’s lawyer, Tonja Carter, has denied that the author had any role in stripping the museum of the play. In an email last year to the museum’s board president, she said that decision had rested with the company that licenses the stage adaptation — and she did not think she could stop it.But Christopher Sergel III, the president of that company, Dramatic Publishing, said in an interview last week that he only pulled the license as a courtesy to Ms. Lee. He said one of Ms. Lee’s representatives had called him a few years back and told him she did not like the museum’s production.“I was told Harper Lee was involved in forming a nonprofit in town to handle the play using the same actors as before,” he said. “Absent the desire from the Harper Lee camp, I would not have terminated the contract. If Harper Lee wanted to produce this herself in her hometown, how could I have argued with that?”None of the twists and turns in the back story of the play hurt its reception Friday, where the sold-out crowd stood and applauded at its conclusion, when Atticus shares a final reflection with his daughter, Scout.“It’s business as usual for the play,” said George Landegger, an industrialist and philanthropist who has been active in Monroeville’s affairs. “Nothing has changed; it is essentially the same cast. And of course, the public remains excited about it.”The play has already sold out 8 of its 12 performances, though Jane Busby, the director, said the pace of sales over the past six weeks has been slower than in recent memory, perhaps because of the new method of selling online. Last year, the performances sold out in five days, owing in part to the excitement over publication of Ms. Lee’s second book, “Go Set a Watchman.”The play has long been an economic boon to this town of about 6,300, drawing thousands of visitors during the five weeks each spring that it is performed. As the producer each year, the museum took in as much as $200,000 in revenues from ticket sales, nearly half of its former annual budget.This year the museum will receive just the rent for the continued use of its headquarters, the old courthouse, to stage the play. Ms. Lee’s nonprofit, Mockingbird Company, is paying $48,000 in rent, down from the $63,000 that the museum said it needed to cover expenses. Without the full proceeds from the ticket sales, and a drop in money from the county, the museum had to cut two positions and increasingly relies on volunteers to assist in the gift shop and to lead tours.Ms. Carter, who runs the nonprofit, said Friday that the plan is to donate proceeds from the play to local charities, including the Monroe County Public Library, which she said needed an infusion of funds.Ms. Carter remains something of a polarizing figure in this town, where many respect the dutiful care she provided for the author and others complain that she is spiteful and has used her power as Ms. Lee’s representative to settle scores.Stephanie Rogers, who was the executive director of the museum, said she believes her firing last summer by the Monroe County Commission, the local government panel, was influenced by Ms. Carter. Ms. Rogers also thinks Ms. Carter resented that the museum had fought the trademark suit.Ms. Carter has denied any role in the firing. The commission’s chairman, Greg Norris, and Tom Lomenick, the museum’s board president at the time, have said she played no role.But in emails to Mr. Norris last year, obtained through a public record request, Mr. Lomenick cited several reasons he thought Ms. Rogers should be fired. She was, among other things, he wrote, going out of her way to antagonize the new nonprofit producers of the play by, he said, doing things like hiding props. “You and the commissioners have got to step up for the good of the county and city,” Mr. Lomenick told Mr. Norris. “We could lose the play all together if Tonja gets mad enough.”Ms. Rogers, in an interview, denied hiding the props.Earlier this year Scott Rudin, the producer, announced that he is bringing a second stage adaptation of the play, written by Aaron Sorkin, to Broadway next year. Mr. Sergel said Dramatic’s Mockingbird adaptation, which his grandfather wrote and which has been performed all over the world, will continue to be widely produced in amateur and regional theaters.Ms. Carter said Friday that she hopes to take the Sergel adaptation on the road to England next year. But wherever it travels, she said, she envisions it at the museum as well.“It will always be here as far as I can see,” she said.That was good news to cast members, some of whom had said they feared the nonprofit might ultimately decide that the play should take up residence in, say, Montgomery, at the Alabama Shakespeare Festival there. Ms. Carter said it would be wonderful if the play eventually was performed there, too.Residents said the play retains a special authenticity when it is performed in the old courthouse — the sense that the audience is breathing the very same air as Atticus and Scout as they confronted the racism of Alabama in the 1930s.“I’ve seen productions in Hong Kong and Pell City,” Ala., said Tim McKenzie, the new president of the museum who has acted in the play for eight years. “Nothing is like it is here.”
When Joyce A. Rivera decided in 1990 to confront the AIDS epidemic that had claimed her brother’s life, she teamed up with unlikely allies: two drug dealers in the South Bronx. First, she educated them on how dirty needles and unprotected sex spread H.I.V., which causes AIDS. Then, she wound up distributing clean syringes to their customers in Mott Haven.“I put my time and effort into seeing the drug dealers as real persons who had access to so many users that I could make a dent in the epidemic if I won them over,” she said. “I never said they were nice guys. But they were educable.”Back then, her needle exchange program — St. Ann’s Corner of Harm Reduction — operated on the fringes of an impoverished minority community. The public saw her efforts as enabling drug users who would be better off behind bars. Today, her methods are viewed as part of an effective public health strategy that prevents the spread of disease and offers addicts help.She suspects that her once-unorthodox approach has gained acceptance now that opioid and heroin addiction has exploded in white, suburban communities (almost 90 percent of new users are white, according to one national study). Compassion, rather than criminalization, is the keyword, with some police departments and politicians reassessing strategies developed during the war on drugs (which one former aide to President Richard M. Nixon was reported to have said had been mounted, in part, to target African-Americans).“It had been a really big problem for years, but nobody cared because people had a very specific idea of what a drug user looked like,” said Dr. Chinazo O. Cunningham, a professor at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx who has worked extensively on harm reduction. “It’s about time to see the shift from incarceration to treatment. But it’s bittersweet because it’s clear the reason it’s happening now is that it’s affecting communities that are white and affluent.”The number of H.I.V. infections and AIDS deaths was already staggering by the time Ms. Rivera started her needle exchange. It had been enough to divert her from pursuing a doctorate in political science and devote herself to public health at the grass-roots level. Her decision was reinforced by more family tragedies, when she lost two more close relatives to AIDS.Still, she hit resistance. Politicians were wary of her work, as were the police who were racking up arrests of low-level dealers and users, while residents whose neighborhoods were plagued by drugs saw her as enabling criminals.“When my brother died, the policies against drug users were shocking,” Ms. Rivera said. “The opposition to giving out syringes was such that they preferred to see drug users die. When you challenge the status quo with a more humane way of dealing with the problem, there are many constituencies invested in preventing change. It was about scapegoating the traditional bad guys.”She stuck with her approach, helped by New York State health officials and other allies who saw needle sharing as a public health emergency.She said she welcomed the changing attitudes among white suburbanites and looked forward to the special session of the United Nations General Assembly this week on the global drug problem, where advocates for harm reduction hope their experiences will influence policy makers from around the world.“Change has to include coalitions among many people and many groups,” Ms. Rivera said. “Without that majority, you’re only going to be making change at the margins.”Not that her work is marginal. At its regular sidewalk locations, her group distributes clean syringes, paraphernalia, condoms and naloxone, a drug that counters the effects of an opioid overdose. Inside its offices on Westchester Avenue, St. Ann’s Corner offers social and medical services, and clients come in for not only meals and showers, but also acupuncture and a quiet space to mediate. The organization’s goal, she said, is to let people get help, get stable and sort out their challenges.Camille Lipscomb was still using heroin when she arrived at St. Ann’s Corner almost two years ago. A decades-long addict, she had lost her freedom after several arrests. It had even cost her her home, landing her in a shelter. But the hardest part for Ms. Lipscomb, who was raised by parents who were professionals, was losing her grandson’s respect.“He said his grandma was thugged out and bugged out,” she recalled. “To hear him say that, I knew I had to do something.”She stopped using heroin seven months ago. She has received a housing voucher and looks forward to having her own apartment once again. She still goes to St. Ann’s Corner, eager to help others as she was, rather than judged.“This was a place for me to be still and gather my thoughts,” Ms. Lipscomb said. “What I really liked here was the camaraderie. People don’t look down at you here.”
Earthquakes of magnitudes exceeding 7.0 struck Japan and Ecuador just hours apart on Saturday. Are the two somehow related?No. The two quakes occurred about 9,000 miles apart. That’s far too distant for there to be any connection between them.Large earthquakes can, and usually do, lead to more quakes — but only in the same region, along or near the same fault. These are called aftershocks. Sometimes a large quake can be linked to a smaller quake that occurred earlier, called a foreshock. In the case of the Japanese quake, seismologists believe that several magnitude-6 quakes in the same region on the previous day were foreshocks to the Saturday event.But the two earthquakes are similar in some ways, aren’t they?Not really. The magnitude-7.8 quake in Ecuador was what would be considered a classic megathrust event, a type that was first identified through the work of George Plafker, a United States Geological Survey geologist, on the great Alaskan earthquake of 1964. A megathrust quake occurs in the boundary zone where one of the planet’s tectonic plates is sliding under another, a process called subduction.In the case of the Ecuadorean quake, the Nazca, a heavy oceanic plate, is sliding under the South American, a lighter continental plate, at a rate of about two inches a year. Strain builds up at the boundary, which is then released suddenly in the form of an earthquake. Because the boundary area is usually large, megathrust quakes are the most powerful and include the two strongest quakes ever measured by instruments: the magnitude-9.2 1964 Alaskan quake and one in coastal Chile in 1960 of magnitude 9.5.Although there have been plenty of megathrust earthquakes in Japan — including the 2011 Tohoku quake, which led to the Fukushima nuclear disaster — the earthquake on Saturday on the island of Kyushu in southwest Japan was not the megathrust type. Rather, according to the geological survey, the earthquake occurred at shallow depth along a different kind of fault — called a strike-slip — in the top of the Eurasia plate, above any subduction zone.O.K., but two 7.0-plus quakes in the same day — does that mean earthquake activity is increasing?No. The geological survey, which monitors earthquakes around the world, says the average number of quakes per year is remarkably consistent. For earthquakes between magnitude 7.0 and 7.9, there have been some years with more than 20 and others with fewer than 10, but the average, according to the survey, is about 15. That means that there is more than one per month, on average, and by chance, sometimes two quakes occur on the same day. (Also by chance, the world sometimes goes a month or longer without a 7.0-plus quake, as it did between July 27 and Sept. 16 last year.)Sometimes it seems that earthquakes are increasing in frequency because, as instrumentation improves and more people occupy more parts of the world, more quakes make the news. The two earthquakes on Saturday both occurred in heavily populated areas with media and communication networks, so word got out quickly and easily. If one had occurred in the middle of the ocean, few people would have noticed.
Mowgli lit a box office wildfire over the weekend.“The Jungle Book,” directed by Jon Favreau and costing a hefty $175 million to make, took in about $103.6 million at North American multiplexes, or roughly 40 percent more than analysts had predicted before release. It was one of the largest openings on record for a PG-rated film, according to the database Box Office Mojo.About 42 percent of ticket sales came from 3-D and other premium showings, which cost an extra $3 to $5 per ticket. Disney said on Sunday that surveys showed that crowds were almost evenly split between male and female attendees; about 70 percent of the initial audience was 17 or older.“The Jungle Book” took in an additional $187.4 million overseas.The turnout, powered by widespread critical applause, adds to a hot streak for Disney — “Zootopia” has now taken in nearly $900 million worldwide — and validates the studio’s decision to focus its signature label on remakes of animated classics. Audience support for “The Jungle Book” bodes well, in other words, for Bill Condon’s upcoming take on “Beauty and the Beast” and Tim Burton’s planned “Dumbo.”The strength of this “Jungle Book,” meanwhile, will likely make life more difficult for a competing project. Warner Bros. has been working on its own expensive version of the Rudyard Kipling story; earlier this month, Warner pushed the release of its “Jungle Book” back by a year, to October 2018.For the weekend, the Warner-distributed “Barbershop: The Next Cut” was a soft second, taking in about $20.2 million, according to comScore. This comedy sequel, from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Warner’s New Line, only cost $20 million to make, but expectations were higher; “Barbershop 2: Back in Business” took in $30.5 million in its opening weekend in 2004, after accounting for inflation.The Melissa McCarthy vehicle “The Boss” (Universal) fell 57 percent in its second weekend — by far the biggest post-opening drop of her career — to place third, with about $10.2 million in ticket sales and a new total of $40.4 million.Also of note: Lionsgate’s dismal box office run continued with “Criminal,” which cost a reported $30 million to make and collected just $5.9 million. Fortunately for Lionsgate’s production team, this letdown was mostly the handiwork of a partner, Millennium Films.
JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel led a cabinet meeting in the Israeli-controlled portion of the Golan Heights on Sunday, calling on the world to recognize Israeli sovereignty over the conquered territory and vowing that Israel would never give it back to Syria.Mr. Netanyahu made his remarks at what his office described as a “festive” meeting of the cabinet in one of the Jewish settlements on the strategic plateau that Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East war. Israel later effectively annexed the Golan Heights in a move that was never internationally recognized.Officially, the occasion for holding the first formal cabinet meeting in the territory was to mark a year since the formation of Mr. Netanyahu’s current right-leaning government. Yet the timing, according to experts, was more likely dictated by Israeli concerns arising from the recently resumed talks in Geneva over Syria’s future — or hopes that the talks might present an opportunity for Israel.“The Golan Heights have been an integral part of the land of Israel since ancient times; the dozens of ancient synagogues in the area around us attest to that,” Mr. Netanyahu said at the start of the meeting. “And the Golan is an integral part of the state of Israel in the new era.”Mr. Netanyahu said he had spoken with Secretary of State John Kerry on Saturday night and told him that Israel would not oppose a diplomatic settlement in Syria, on the condition that it not come at the expense of his country’s security.“I told him that I doubt that Syria will ever return to what it was,” Mr. Netanyahu said, referring to the five-year civil war there. He added that any settlement should involve the removal of the forces of Iran, the Lebanese Hezbollah organization and the Islamic State from Syrian soil.Mr. Netanyahu referred to the years between 1948 and 1967, when Syria held the territory and when much of northern Israel was subjected to sporadic shelling, as a “Syrian occupation.”“The time has come for the international community to recognize reality, especially two basic facts,” he added. “One, whatever is beyond the border, the boundary itself will not change. Two, after 50 years, the time has come for the international community to finally recognize that the Golan Heights will remain under Israel’s sovereignty permanently.”The Golan Heights became part of Syria when the French mandate in the region ended in the 1940s, and the Israeli-held portion is viewed internationally as occupied Syrian territory. About 22,000 Syrian Druse residents live in the portion controlled by Israel. They have been offered Israeli citizenship, but most have not applied for it. More than 20,000 Jewish residents now live in about 30 settlements.Although Israeli leaders, including Mr. Netanyahu, have, in the past, held direct or indirect negotiations with Syria over a peace deal involving a withdrawal from the Golan Heights, the civil war in Syria and the presence of jihadist forces along the frontier have given many Israelis pause and given Mr. Netanyahu arguments to justify holding the territory. Some politicians have been promoting new development plans there.“There is a feeling that things are coming to a close one way or another regarding Syria,” said Prof. Eyal Zisser of Tel Aviv University. “Netanyahu wants to use the moment to have Israel’s interests taken into account, including recognition of the Israeli presence in the Golan Heights.”Professor Zisser added that while there was little chance that the world powers would recognize Israeli sovereignty in the area, Mr. Netanyahu might also be raising the issue out of domestic considerations.Israel’s Channel 10 TV station reported last week that Mr. Netanyahu was concerned about indications that plans for a negotiated arrangement in Syria, with backing from the United States, Russia and other world powers, might include language specifying that the entire area of the Golan Heights was Syrian.Mr. Netanyahu raised the question of American recognition of Israeli sovereignty with President Obama in Washington in November, but the administration said that the United States’ position remained unchanged, the Haaretz newspaper reported.A spokesman for Mr. Netanyahu had no comment on those reports.Zvi Hauser, Mr. Netanyahu’s former cabinet secretary, called last year for an “American pledge” to ensure Israeli rule in the Golan Heights as partial “compensation” for the international nuclear agreement with Iran, which Israel rejected.Itamar Rabinovich, a former Israeli ambassador to Washington and former chief negotiator with Syria in the 1990s, said he thought Mr. Netanyahu was making a mistake by holding a high-profile cabinet meeting in the Golan Heights and by raising the issue of Israeli sovereignty.“In recent years Israel has gained a great diplomatic advantage in that the claim that the source of all troubles in the Middle East is the Israeli-Arab conflict has been disproved by developments, such as the developments in Syria, Iraq and Libya that have no connection to Israel,” Mr. Rabinovich told Israel Radio, adding, “I’m not necessarily coming out against the stand but against this demonstrative act that returns us to the heart of the argument.”The cabinet meeting came a week after Mr. Netanyahu made another unusual declaration acknowledging that Israel had carried out “dozens” of strikes across the Syrian frontier in recent years to prevent Hezbollah from obtaining advanced weapons. While Israel has generally hewed to a policy of nonintervention in the internal fighting in Syria, it has acted to prevent weapons shipments from Syria to Lebanon but has rarely admitted responsibility for the strikes, in part to avoid pushing the other side to retaliate.
A college student who came to the United States as an Iraqi refugee was removed from a Southwest Airlines flight in California earlier this month after another passenger became alarmed when she heard him speaking Arabic.The student, Khairuldeen Makhzoomi, a senior at the University of California, Berkeley, was taken off a flight from Los Angeles International Airport to Oakland on April 6 after he called an uncle in Baghdad to tell him about an event he attended that included a speech by United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.“I was very excited about the event so I called my uncle to tell him about it,” he said.He told his uncle about the chicken dinner they were served and the moment when he got to stand up and ask the secretary general a question about the Islamic State, he said. But the conversation seemed troubling to a nearby passenger, who told the crew she overheard him making “potentially threatening comments,” the airline said in a statement.Mr. Makhzoomi, 26, knew something was wrong as soon as he finished his phone call and saw that a woman sitting in front of him had turned around in her seat to stare at him, he said. She headed for the airplane door soon after he told his uncle that he would call again when he landed, and qualified it with a common phrase in Arabic, “inshallah,” meaning “god willing.”“That is when I thought, ‘Oh, I hope she is not reporting me,’ because it was so weird,” Mr. Makhzoomi said.That is exactly what happened. An Arabic-speaking Southwest Airlines employee of Middle Eastern or South Asian descent came to his seat and escorted him off the plane a few minutes after his call ended, he said. The man introduced himself in Arabic and then switched to English to ask, “Why were you speaking Arabic in the plane?”Mr. Makhzoomi said he was afraid, and that the employee spoke to him “like I was an animal.”“I said to him, ‘This is what Islamophobia got this country into,’ and that made him so angry. That is when he told me I could not go back on the plane.”Zahra Billoo, the executive director of the San Francisco Bay Area office of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said there had been at least six cases of Muslims being pulled off flights so far this year. The conduct of Southwest Airlines was of particular concern, she said, after another Muslim passenger was removed from a flight in Chicago last week.“We are concerned that Muslims are facing more and more scrutiny and baseless harassment when they are attempting to travel,” Ms. Billoo said.Brandy King, a spokeswoman for Southwest Airlines, said the company was unable to comment on the conduct of individual employees. Efforts on Saturday to contact the employee in Los Angeles, whose name was provided by Mr. Makhzoomi, were unsuccessful.“We regret any less than positive experience a customer has onboard our aircraft,” the company said in a statement. “Southwest neither condones nor tolerates discrimination of any kind.”Law enforcement officials arrived shortly after Mr. Makhzoomi accused the airline employee of anti-Muslim bias, he said. He was brought into the terminal and searched in front of a crowd of onlookers while half a dozen police officers, including one with a dog, stood watch.Three agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrived and brought him into a private room where they questioned him, he said. They asked about his mother, who lives with him and his younger brother in Oakland. They also asked about his father, Khalid Makhzoomi, a former Iraqi diplomat who was jailed in Abu Ghraib prison by Saddam Hussein and later killed by the dictator’s regime, according to Mr. Makhzoomi. His family came to the United States in 2010.Mr. Makhzoomi said an F.B.I. agent told him the Southwest Airlines employee who was upset by the allegation of anti-Muslim bias said a passenger reported hearing him talk about martyrdom in Arabic, using a phrase often associated with jihadists. He denied the charge and was allowed to return to the terminal, he said, where the same Arabic-speaking employee refunded his ticket.A spokeswoman for the F.B.I. in Los Angeles, Ari Dekofsky, confirmed that agents responded to the airport that day but had found there to be no threat. “We determined that no further action was necessary,” she said on Saturday.Mr. Makhzoomi was able to book a new flight on Delta Air Lines and arrived in Oakland eight hours after he originally planned. He said he has no plans to pursue legal action against Southwest Airlines but he does want the company to apologize for the way its employees treated him.“My family and I have been through a lot and this is just another one of the experiences I have had,” he said. “Human dignity is the most valuable thing in the world, not money. If they apologized, maybe it would teach them to treat people equally.”
“All of this, honestly, is one big magic trick.”Those words, spoken by the director Jon Favreau, were meant to sum up the technological wizardry on display in his hyperrealistic remake of “The Jungle Book,” which was largely created with computers. But Mr. Favreau could also have been describing the way Walt Disney Studios used marketing sleight of hand to fill seats on opening weekend. “The Jungle Book” took in an astounding $103.6 million in North America, according to Disney.Studios hate to discuss their marketing for fear of coming across as corporate versions of Kaa, the slippery “Jungle Book” python who hypnotizes prey. (“Trusssst in me.”) But movies — especially ones as tricky as “The Jungle Book,” a stylized film based on a cartoon musical, based on a classic book — do not sell themselves. Here are some of the tricks that Disney, which declined to comment, used to move the masses:In August, Mr. Favreau bounded onto a 7,800-seat arena at a Disney fan convention in Anaheim, Calif., and showed sneak-peek footage from his film. He hobnobbed with three “Jungle Book” stars on stage, including Neel Sethi, who plays the man-cub Mowgli. Thousands of movie posters were handed out.This was the first marketing stunt for “The Jungle Book,” which cost roughly $175 million to make. By going to happy, peppy Disneyphiles first, Disney ensured that the movie’s initial blast on social media would be a positive one.When animals talk in a movie, unless it’s a comedy, older moviegoers tend to skip it. Most of Mr. Favreau’s animals are not cartoonish and cuddly (not by a long shot), but Disney could not rely on trailers and TV spots to convey that message.So Disney used bloggers and entertainment news sites to hammer home a point: Mr. Favreau used sophisticated filmmaking techniques to create the animal characters.In part to make “The Jungle Book” appeal to a finicky high school crowd — older siblings tend to influence younger brothers and sisters — Disney packed the first trailer with scary moments (pouncing panther, snarling tiger, stampeding buffalo) while hiding the musical numbers and keeping Baloo’s goofier moments to a minimum.Stars are another way to make adults pay attention. To elevate “The Jungle Book” in the minds of grown-ups, Disney in March circulated dramatic photographs that paired voice actors with their onscreen characters — Idris Elba with the tiger Shere Khan, Ben Kingsley with the panther Bagheera, Lupita Nyong’o with the wolf Raksha.Generally speaking, women and girls see Disney’s magic castle logo on a trailer and are pulled closer. The opposite can be true with guys. So Disney aggressively and repeatedly pitched “The Jungle Book” to male audiences.Commercials on ESPN portrayed the movie as coming not from the studio that made “Cinderella” but “from the studio that brought you ‘Pirates of the Caribbean.’” An extended 3-D trailer for “The Jungle Book” was attached to “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” which had an audience that was 58 percent male.And Disney rolled out an action-oriented trailer during the Super Bowl.Studio marketers have learned that Hispanic moviegoers tend to buy tickets in particularly large groups; if you hook one family member, you can get an exponential result. To achieve that goal, Disney teamed with Univision for a five-week stunt that brought “Jungle Book” characters and clips to telenovelas, talk shows and sports coverage. Disney even built a tool to allow Univision personalities to appear in scenes.If moviegoers believe that, they are more likely to spend $3 to $5 more a ticket to see “The Jungle Book” in 3-D, which can lift opening-weekend sales considerably. To emphasize the scope and scale of this movie, Disney introduced a mazelike Law of the Jungle website in partnership with the female-leaning Tumblr; ran special promos at IMAX theaters focusing on the snake Kaa; and created a touring virtual-reality experience and 360-degree Facebook video emphasizing the “Avatar”-like world of its jungle.Various corners of the Disney empire pitched in to promote “The Jungle Book.” A New Year’s Day stunt on the Disney Channel, for instance, was used to portray the film as one of the year’s first blockbuster offerings for families and children.But the synergistic heavy lifting was done by Disney theme parks. During the jam-packed spring break weeks, park theaters in Florida and California offered sneak-peek footage of the movie, with Mr. Favreau providing introductions.The many (many) theme park stores that sell Disney merchandise had “Jungle Book” sections. And Disney built photogenic “Jungle Book” sand sculptures at its Animal Kingdom and Epcot parks in Florida.
On Saturday night, Guns N’ Roses brought out the AC/DC guitarist Angus Young at Coachella. Soon, the exchange will be reversed: Axl Rose, the Guns N’ Roses lead singer, will take up frontman duties for AC/DC on its world tour next month.He will take the place of Brian Johnson, who stopped touring after being advised by doctors that he could lose his hearing completely if he continued. “As much as we want this tour to end as it started, we understand, respect and support Brian’s decision to stop touring and save his hearing,” the band wrote in a statement on Saturday. The tour will begin on May 7 in Lisbon and end in June in Denmark. Ten AC/DC shows that were postponed in the United States are also slated to be rescheduled, with Mr. Rose singing lead.Mr. Rose will return for a three-month reunion tour with Guns N’ Roses, in a lineup that features two of the group’s other founding members, Slash and Duff McKagan. “There is more self-preservation in his performance; he allows himself some clear-voiced high crooning and saves his most throat-tearing howls for peak moments,” Jon Pareles wrote about Mr. Rose in his recent review in The New York Times.
QUITO, Ecuador — The strongest earthquake to strike Ecuador in decades left the Andean nation traumatized on Sunday, with collapsed buildings in a swath of destruction stretching hundreds of miles.At least 272 people were killed and 2,527 injured, mostly in the northwestern coastal area of Manabí, the government said.President Rafael Correa cut short a visit to Europe and declared a national emergency after the 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck on Saturday night, shaking the central coast. The effects could be felt in the capital, Quito, and into parts of Peru and Colombia.Portoviejo, the provincial capital of Manabí, and Pedernales, a resort town, appeared to have sustained the most damage, with about 370 buildings destroyed.Viviana Baquezea, 34, a florist, was driving back to her home in Portoviejo, accompanied by her parents and an employee, when the earthquake struck. They were met by a scene of destruction.“It looks like a war zone,” Ms. Baquezea said by telephone from Portoviejo. “It’s incredible what was happened to us — that our city is destroyed and we’re experiencing such anguish and pain.”“We don’t have food or water, there are no supermarkets, and we’re surviving with what we had in our homes,” she added.José Vaca, a television producer for OromarTV, said the seconds in which the earth refused to stay still seemed to last forever.“We were preparing to transmit a local football game when everything started to shake and the people fled in panic,” he said of a game in Portoviejo. “I had to to avoid being crushed by the people. I have some scrapes. But what I see around me is really terrible, startling and very sad.”Ecuador has a history of destructive earthquakes, but the one on Saturday, which by some accounts lasted more than a minute, is believed to have been one of the most powerful since the 1970s. Some geologists said its force was 20 times greater than the deadly earthquake that struck southern Japan early Saturday.The quake had a depth of nearly 12 miles. Several aftershocks, some as strong as magnitude 5.6, followed. The earthquake’s center was 16 miles southeast of Muisne, Ecuador, the United States Geological Survey said.About 4,600 members of the National Police and 10,400 members of the armed forces were mobilized as part of the emergency response. Hundreds of doctors, health professionals and rescue workers were heading toward the hardest-hit areas.The president’s emergency decree gives the government expanded authority and a state of emergency in six of the country’s 24 provinces. Deaths were reported in the northern provinces of Esmeraldas, Manabí and Guayas.Among the dead were a youngster who fell down the stairs in a mall in the southern port city of Guayaquil and another who died after the collapse of a bridge in the city, according to reports from the television station Teleamazonas.Adriana Villacís, 40, a nurse, said she was with her husband and her 4-year-old son at a supermarket about 30 minutes from Quito when groceries began to fall to the floor.“The first thing I did was protect my son and look for the exit, but a part of the roof fell, and I was frozen,” she said. “Thank God we weren’t physically harmed, but the shock caused my child to vomit.”In the Pedernales district, near the epicenter, a number of homes fell, damaging parked cars.On Avenue Mariscal Sucre in northern Quito, signposts fell, causing panic among drivers. Jorge Espinel said he had parked his car to avoid an accident.“It was terrible, such a shock,” he said. “I don’t have words for what I felt.”In Quito, where the shaking was felt for about 40 seconds and residents took to the streets in fear, the quake appeared to have knocked out electricity and cellphone coverage in several neighborhoods.The mayor of Quito, Mauricio Rodas, said there had been rockslides on roads leading to the capital and reports that the walls of houses had fallen. But he said that no fatalities or injuries had been reported in the city.Christian Rivera, a municipal official in Quito, said a group of 40 children with disabilities from the capital, who had been on an outing, were found near Pedernales and were rescued.In Guayaquil, an overpass collapsed on a car, and the roof of a shopping center buckled. In Manta, the airport was closed after the control tower was severely damaged. Fundación Esperanza Canina, an organization in Manta that cares for stray animals, said on Facebook that its shelter had been destroyed and that several dogs had been crushed by the debris.President Correa urged people to show strength while he and the authorities monitored events.Carlos Hernandez, a representative of Save the Children International in Quito, said his organization was sending a team of disaster response specialists from Panama to Manabí and putting together supply kits to distribute there.His organization and other civil society groups met with government officials to plan their response on Sunday. “We’re trying to see what they need most and where,” he said.
New York City officers shot and killed a 32-year-old man in Queens in the early hours of Sunday after the police said he reached for a gun in his waistband during a chase.Two plainclothes officers approached the man, George Tillman, around 1:30 a.m. as he stood beside his double-parked sport utility vehicle after a family party in the South Ozone Park neighborhood, the police and witnesses said. His wife and a friend were inside the car; they were making plans to go out.The police said Mr. Tillman was holding an open bottle of alcohol and, as the officers moved closer, they saw a firearm in his waistband.Mr. Tillman ran, and the officers briefly pursued him on foot as they gave him “verbal commands,” the police said. Not far away, near the corner of 135th Street and 116th Avenue, three more officers in an unmarked car came upon him.Mr. Tillman reached for his gun, the police said, and four officers fired. He was hit several times in his torso, the authorities said.The police said they could not yet answer questions about what exactly the officers told Mr. Tillman, who was visiting from Maryland, or the precise number of times he was shot.The friend of Mr. Tillman who was in the S.U.V. disputed the police account, saying Mr. Tillman had not been holding an open bottle of alcohol. The friend declined to give his name because he was dealing with an unrelated police matter.“I saw him run,” the friend said. “Did he try to pull the weapon out? No. He didn’t attempt to grab his weapon.”The friend said that about 30 seconds passed between the police’s approaching Mr. Tillman and the shooting. He said he did not hear officers give Mr. Tillman any warnings before they fired at him from about 10 feet away. The friend had ducked behind a car door.“I felt like I was in a movie,” he said. “It was unreal and it happened so fast.”Then he heard a gut-wrenching yell from Mr. Tillman’s wife. He said she ran toward her husband, who was lying in the street. Officers held her back.“She was screaming, ‘Oh no, please, please God, no,’” the friend said.Mr. Tillman was pronounced dead at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center. The officers were not hurt, but they were taken to Long Island Jewish Medical Center for evaluation. The police did not release their names. They were all assigned to the 106th Precinct.Officers recovered a Hi-Point .40-caliber firearm at the scene, the police said.Neighbors poured out of their homes, many of them puzzled by the chaos in what they described as a typically quiet neighborhood. One woman screamed about having video cameras that captured the shooting, said a neighbor, Eric Machicote.Evidence markers dotted the pavement on 135th Street. Just behind Mr. Tillman’s S.U.V., a gray Ford sedan appeared to have stopped mid-drive.Anthony Seegobin, 26, who lives near 135th Street and 116th Avenue, said he initially thought the gunshots had come from an action movie he was watching, and then possibly from cars backfiring outside. Only when ambulances arrived and he saw shell casings was he sure that someone had been shot — a sign, he said, of how safe people feel in the area.Mr. Seegobin’s sister and her husband, who were in the basement, told him they heard an officer yell, “Get down,” and then, after a couple of seconds, three or four gunshots.Mr. Tillman had recently married, and was helping raise five children — three of his own and two of his wife’s, said another friend, who identified himself as J. Washington. He said Mr. Tillman was a licensed electrician.“Life was just starting to go good for him,” Mr. Washington said.Mr. Washington said he was coming back from the corner store when he heard gunshots.“He was trying to run through the block,” Mr. Washington said. “I hear boom, boom. I’m thinking, ‘Who’s shooting?’ I just hear the echoes: shucka, shucka, shucka, shucka.”Around 10:45 a.m., a woman who identified herself as Mr. Tillman’s aunt was stopped by the police as she tried to cross the crime scene tape. She and another woman said they were trying to get to a house down the block to visit with relatives, including Mr. Tillman’s wife.“We just want answers,” the aunt said.The women eventually made a call and then drove off.“They won’t let us through,” the aunt said, shaking her head. “Unbelievable.”
There is a second critical contest in America’s 2016 elections: the battle for control of the Senate.Republicans, pessimistic about their presidential prospects, feel an urgency to hold on to the Senate, where they now effectively have a 54-to-46 advantage. (Democrats would have to score a net gain of 30 seats to win a majority in the House, a highly unlikely prospect.) Both parties acknowledge that the Senate is a tossup that will be affected by the presidential election. But there are two other, perhaps more important, factors: the outcome of a number of remaining primaries and the question of whether congressional Republicans, especially the speaker of the House, Paul D. Ryan, can fashion an agenda that, if necessary, creates a distance from the debates of the presidential race.Strategists on both sides suggest that there are two Republican-held seats that lean Democratic, along with several tossups. There is only one Democratic-held seat, that of the party’s Senate leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, who is retiring, that seems competitive. But there are three or four other Republican-held seats that may be vulnerable if the presidential race proves a landslide for the Democrats.Democrats, however, say that a couple of primaries will be critical: In Pennsylvania, party leaders believe that if Katie McGinty, an environmentalist, can emerge the winner in her close contest next week, she has a chance to unseat Senator Patrick J. Toomey, the incumbent Republican, in November. Later, if Representative Patrick Murphy, a Florida Democrat, is able to defeat a challenger from the left who faces ethics charges, he will be the favorite to take the seat vacated by Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican.On the Republican side, the issue is the extent of the damage that a few challengers from the right will be able to inflict on more mainstream candidates. An example: The party has felt confident about Nevada since it settled on Joe Heck, a popular House member, as its candidate. This month, however, Sharron Angle, a prominent Tea Party activist, jumped into the race. Ms. Angle won a multicandidate primary in 2010 but lost to Mr. Reid after asserting that Shariah was spreading, as well as making other claims that voters appeared to find dubious. She is not likely to win this time but could damage Mr. Heck.Democrats believe that the refusal of the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, to allow a hearing on President Obama’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Merrick B. Garland, will hurt Republican incumbents in states such as New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Ohio. “They try to stress their independence,” notes J. B. Poersch, a top Democratic political strategist, “but they’re carrying McConnell’s baggage.” Republicans counter that these races are local contests and that their stronger incumbents will prevail in Ohio and elsewhere. Ironically, one of the Republicans’ models is a Democrat, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, who was elected to the Senate in 2012 despite Mr. Obama’s losing her state by almost 20 points.Mr. Ryan, who again took himself out of consideration for a presidential run last week, has a different take, however. He thinks that it is important for congressional Republicans to frame a message — and policy prescriptions — that could separate them from an unpopular presidential candidate.That approach has appeal, but it has problems, too. For one, the speaker, a Jack Kemp protégé, is out of sync with the angry Republican rank and file this year on issues like immigration and trade.Also, separation is not easy. Former Representative Tom Davis of Virginia, a leading Republican strategist who used to oversee the House campaign committee, knows what it is like to be saddled with a liability. In 1994, he won election to a suburban Washington district while Oliver North, a right-leaning former Marine who had been embroiled in the Iran-contra scandal, was blowing a race for the Senate.But Mr. Davis worries that Republican candidates will find it tougher to overcome such liabilities this time, particularly if Donald J. Trump leads the ticket: “He just has offended too many people not to affect other races.”
On April 1, police officers from the 108th Precinct were called to an address in Woodside, Queens, by a man named August Watkins. He reported that his car had been stolen. The timing of his call would become an issue in the days that followed.That precinct was one of five in Queens and another in Brooklyn that were in the midst of a wave of commercial robberies. The crimes had begun six days earlier, on March 26, when someone robbed the N&K Smart Mart on Northern Boulevard in Jackson Heights, Queens, at 6:40 a.m., the police said.The man who robbed the store said he had a gun under his jacket. “Give me money,” he demanded, leaving with $800, the police said.Similar scenes played out in gas stations, bodegas, dollar stores, Subway restaurants, a Dunkin’ Donuts and a smoke shop, sometimes as often as three times a day.One day, two robberies several blocks apart took place in a span of seven minutes in Sunnyside, Queens. Another day, a robber struck the same BP gas station twice, the police said.“He came in and came around,” an employee who gave only his first name, Onur, said, recalling the robbery and pointing to the register. It was 1:58 a.m. on March 28. The robber walked out with $200, Onur said.Almost 12 hours later, at 1:25 p.m., after a shift change, the robber returned. “It’s the same story,” Onur said. “Same guy.” He did better the second time around, stealing $400, Onur said.The number of robberies rose to 16 over 10 days. Then, on April 7, the police announced that the crimes were linked. They had all been committed by the same man, the police said, identifying Mr. Watkins, who had reported his car stolen six days earlier, as the robber.Last week, a woman who identified herself as Mr. Watkins’s former fiancée answered the door at her apartment in Woodside, his last known address and where he had reported his car stolen. Speaking through tears and on the condition that her name not be used, she said he had fallen on hard times, some of which he had brought on himself.They had met at a bar in Astoria, Queens, the woman said, when the friends she was with left to use the bathroom. Mr. Watkins, 42, approached and the two hit it off. He was a truck driver who worked for companies that held big events, transporting supplies, she said. He played handball with friends, and took her to movies and dinners in Manhattan and to the Queens waterfront. He had spent time in prison, for robbery and attempted robbery, but she and her family were convinced that life was behind him, and the couple were engaged to be married.Then something changed.“Heroin,” the woman said. “He started using a year ago.” He told her a friend gave him some and he had gotten hooked.“It hurts,” she said. “I’d see him in pain here. He’d say, ‘I need it.’”Six months after he slipped into addiction, she kicked him out. “It was like tough love,” she said. “He had to leave.”Mr. Watkins still came around from time to time to take a shower or to get a change of clothes. “He was living out of his car,” she said.That was the car he had reported stolen. He sat on the front stoop of the building in Woodside and answered the officers’ questions, his former fiancée said. It was around 1 p.m., she said, explaining why that was important: That very day, the crime wave had hit two gas stations in Queens, one nearby at 6:05 a.m. and the other miles away at 12:35 p.m. The officers’ visit, it is believed, was meant to provide Mr. Watkins with an alibi for at least the second crime on the day.Mr. Watkins was arrested on April 8 in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. His lawyer, Lowell J. Sidney, said last week that his client had been charged in only one robbery, at a Subway shop on April 3. The police said their investigation was continuing.Mr. Watkins’s former fiancée also said she found it unlikely, if not impossible, that on April 2, the day after he reported his car stolen, he had robbed two stores within seven minutes, as the police stated. But it was not impossible: Last week, maintaining a brisk pace and jaywalking, a reporter went from one location, a dollar store, to the other, a liquor store, in five minutes and 48 seconds.Even Mr. Watkins’s supposed alibi has been cast in doubt. A reporter asked the police about the stolen car, and a spokesman for the department located the report. The time it was taken was recorded as 6 p.m., not 1.
KHILAD, India — The cattle camp, on a dusty back road lined with thorny babul trees that seem to thrive no matter how weak the rains, is just about impossible to miss.On a recent day, nearly 3,000 impassive animals took shelter from the midday heat under makeshift tents. They munched the 30 pounds or so of hacked-up sugar cane and sorghum stalks they are allotted and lapped up all the water they wanted, a precious gift in this drought-stricken part of the country.After a third consecutive deficient monsoon season, the government of the Beed district has established as a temporary measure 264 of these camps — long a fixture of drought relief efforts in Maharashtra State — after surveys predicted a shortage of fodder for the animals. But the camps, set up to handle thousands of cattle, have run into an unanticipated problem: The owners of the livestock, who were supposed to drop them off, have instead moved in — cooking utensils, spare cots, water drums and all.The hundreds of farmers packed into the camp do not always enjoy the same comforts as their cattle, which are considered sacred in Hinduism. Slaughtering cows is outlawed in most states, and preserving them is considered essential to avoiding a large-scale catastrophe.The farmers are forced to fend for themselves, cooking their own meals and living in tents surrounded by mounds of fodder, the ground nearby covered with fresh droppings. Nevertheless, they swore they would not return home until the rains came, whenever that might be.“It gets very cold in the winters and in the mornings and evenings,” said Bhimabai Garje, 65, who moved three months ago from her home in Khilad. “It’s very hot during the day inside the tent. Mosquitoes bite us all night. But we have no choice.”The local authorities are aware of the squalid conditions, but say there is not much they can do.“It was not our expectation,” said Naval Kishore Ram, the senior administrator for the Beed district. “We run the camp for the animals. If you start providing food for the human beings, the camp will take another form. This will be a camp for human beings. The basic objective will be disturbed.”Last year in Beed, 45 waterless days stretched out grimly in the middle of what was supposed to be its prime rainy season, as drought was widespread in India. In Marathwada, a region in central Maharashtra State that includes Beed and seven other districts, rainfall was 40 percent below the norm.Wells and hand pumps have run dry, and rumors of mass migrations swirl. Politicians clash over how to address the crisis, and experts worry that the emergency relief, including the cattle camps and the tankers that deliver drinking water to villages, will never stem its root causes.The crisis extends well beyond the Beed district. In nearby Latur, the government sent drinking water by train to meet a surging need. Last month, thousands of farmers in Nashik, in Maharashtra, took to the streets to demand, among other things, compensation for lost crops. And on Wednesday, the Bombay High Court banned Indian Premier League cricket matches in the parched state starting in May in the hope of conserving water.Ajay Dandekar, a professor at Shiv Nadar University near New Delhi who has studied the drought, said the conditions in Marathwada had resulted from dual calamities: a chronically arid landscape ravaged further by rising temperatures and El Niño, as well as the diversion of water to western Maharashtra, where most of its industry and thirsty sugar cane crops lie.“The situation is very grave — it’s hopeless,” he said of the arid countryside.Ms. Garje felt the gravity of the situation last winter in Khilad. The cotton and sorghum monsoon crops had failed, and the village well was nearly dry. Tankers brought drinking water, but she worried about her three cattle, three buffalo and an ox that the family had bought, one by one, beginning 25 years ago when crop yields were bountiful.“I saw the cattle of other villages dying,” she said.So at one January dawn, she and her husband set out for the cattle camp, nearly two miles away, walking across a bridge over a rocky ravine that was once a river, past the sorghum and cotton fields that had yielded so little last year. They foraged for wood to build their tents, and took dried cow dung from the neighbors for their roofs.She now cooks vegetables over an open fire, and returns home twice a month to check in on her son who looks over their fields. But she does not contemplate going back for good.“I love my cattle more than my children,” she said. “I want to stay with them. The life of a farmer all depends on cattle.”It is a sentiment echoed by many residents of the camp, mostly men who have shifted with their animals, and are visited occasionally by their small children and wives.Babasaheb Garje, 30, also of Khilad but no immediate relation to Ms. Garje, said that at the camp, at least, there was drinking water. His wife comes in the morning, helping him feed their cows and bringing food from home, then leaves in the evening.“After she goes, I sit and think what will happen to the animals,” he said. “I think about the rainfall, and whether it will come this year.”Not all cattle camps are bare-bones: A sprawling establishment in the Beed district village of Palwan supplies meals for the farmers staying there and is trying to address one symptom of their distress — their inability to pay for their children’s weddings. The camp organizers are planning a joint marriage ceremony this month for 50 couples of drought-affected farmers, including 14 couples whose families stay in the camp.The program is being financed by the nongovernmental organization that runs the camp. Rajendra Maske, its secretary, is also a member of the Shiv Sangram Party, which stood for state elections with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party. Camp residents say the government has awarded the contracts for many of the camps to NGOs run by political workers.In a starched cotton shirt and crisp trousers, Mr. Maske surveyed the camp with evident satisfaction. He said he hoped the chief minister of Maharashtra would come for the marriage ceremony, and that at $30,000 for the whole affair the NGO was sparing no expense.“People have an emotional connection to the camp,” Mr. Maske said.In February, with some postmonsoon crops showing promise, Mr. Ram, the Beed administrative official, recommended closing the camps “for a month or two.” The government agreed, but the outcry from farmers and politicians was swift, and officials relented.Sanjay Malani, the executive editor of a small daily newspaper in Beed, said that the government was caving to political pressure, and that the camps were being used as vote banks for political parties.“It’s a moneymaking and image-making business,” Mr. Malani said.The relative lavishness of the Palwan camp is atypical, however. The Khalid camp, which is run by the NGO of Vijay Golhar, a Bharatiya Janata Party member and a former member of the district assembly, appeared more austere.“My father has always been working for the betterment and development of the farmers,” said his daughter, Ratnaprabha Golhar. She said that the NGO was providing for all the farmers’ needs, and that any critique of the camp might have come from “some opposition.”But Suresh Wanve, 34, who tends 20 cows and buffalo with his brother at the camp in Khilad, said he would prefer that farmers receive the money the government is spending on the animals’ fodder in cash, so they could buy fodder themselves and stay in their homes.Still, he felt compelled to stay with the animals, whom he likened to the goddess Lakshmi, or the Hindu goddess of wealth. He worries about thieves now that his wife stays alone with their children.“We know all these things,” he said, “but we don’t have any other options.”
The director J.J. Abrams dropped a possible hint Friday evening about the next “Star Wars” and who the protagonist Rey’s parents might be — and who they weren’t.Played by Daisy Ridley, Rey, whose storyline formed the backbone of “The Force Awakens,” is revealed to be strong with the Force, causing widespread speculation that Luke Skywalker, whom she meets at the film’s end, might be her father.Asked by a Tribeca audience member who Rey’s parents were, J. J. Abrams responded, “Rey’s parents are not in Episode VII,” which could be interpreted to mean that Luke Skywalker is not Rey’s father, as many suspected.Mr. Abrams’s response was part of a wide-ranging conversation with Chris Rock, but he revealed nothing else on Friday night, adding only, “It is something that Rey thinks about, too.”Mr Abrams later backtracked somewhat to Entertainment Weekly, saying, “What I meant was that she doesn’t discover them in Episode VII. Not that they may not already be in her world,” he said.A spokesman for Disney, which plans to release Episode VIII in 2017, had no comment.Clarification April 16, 2016This article has been updated to reflect J.J. Abrams’s later statement that Rey’s parents may “already be in her world.”